The Joe Rogan experience.
There's a thing that keeps getting repeated and it's that we only have 60 more
seasons left in, in our top soil.
This is a thing that gets repeated almost as if there's no solution to this,
that because we have to feed so many people we're, we're, we're doomed. And, uh,
what you're saying, no, we just can't do it this way.
Cuz this way is unsustainable and it's unnatural to begin with.
That's exactly right. So we, so we have to fundamentally change. We have to, we,
we have to, um, we have to use our carbon,
our biomass strategically, which includes food scraps by the way, use,
use everything strategic. You can't just throw stuff away that this is,
this is it. Shouldn't be, this is sunlight. That's supposed to be decomposed.
I mean the fact that landfills get,
get green environmental awards for poking methane methane tubes in
the landfill and running, running the,
the excavation equipment on the methane from the decomposing material in a
landfill <laugh> it's it,
it it's it's shouldn't be in there. No, no it's unconscionable. No,
what we need to do is, is hook up. We, we need hookups.
We need to wear the waste streams, like the, uh,
move right into the, the use streams and, and you have circles,
not linear, not linear thinking. And I mean,
just ano another one for example is, um, is ponds.
A lot of people don't realize that before the Europeans came to north America,
north America was 8% water today. We're less than 1%.
I mean, I mean, surface area. Think about the United States being 80% water,
including eight, 8%, right? Eight, eight, I'm sorry. 8%, 8% water. I mean,
think about that in, in Utah, Nevada, New Mexico.
All right. Where'd all that water come from.
Beavers massive, massive beaver populations. I mean,
there were 200 million beavers and we now archeologically digging up
skeletons. Some of them were as big as a Volkswagen, uh, car. Really?
These were big, big, the, the mega fauna,
the mega fauna is incredible. I mean, it's the same as the wombats in, uh,
Australia. You know, now these wombats are like, you know, 80 pounds or little,
you know, little wombats.
Well they know by digging up skeleton used to have nine foot wombats in
Australia, nine foot wombats. So,
so when we look at the megafauna that was here, you know,
the fact is that the planet used to have more animal weight on it
than it does today with all the animals,
all the factory farms and all the people. So it's,
it's not people and animals that are messing up the planet.
It, it it's, it's our, it's the human management of the ecosystem.
It's messing up. The abundance here is, is through the roof. So, so imagine,
imagine if, if we,
and this is what we've been doing on our farm is every time we get a few extra
dollars, we build another pond. Now we're not beavers. Um, but,
but we have, you know,
we have excavation equipment that we can go in and build ponds so that when we
have a flood and, and everything is flooding,
we're actually trapping a lot of that. Not all of it,
but trapping a lot of it up on high ground permaculture style that we can then
dispense for irrigation in a dry time so that
we never pump from an aquifer.
That's the comments when you pump from an aquifer,
you're depleting the comments, but if you're,
if you're reducing flooding and using in a drought to keep
vegetation growing, when there's so much sunlight,
then you're actually increasing the commons.
And we believe very strongly that as a result of our farming,
we should not be depleting the commons.
We should be increasing the commons as a result of our,
there should be more soil, more water, more breathable, air, more, you know,
more wildlife, more pollinators, more.
There's also been a false narrative that it attributes.
Most of our greenhouse gases are a significant number, uh,
significant percentage of our greenhouse gases coming from cows and,
and cow agriculture. And one of the things that they found through using, uh,
satellite imaging, you, and when they, when they're trying to detect methane,
mm-hmm, <affirmative>, they're finding its landfills,
that these landfills are a huge right.
Huge problem in terms of greenhouse gases. Yeah. That this, the,
the total wrong way of approaching it,
the way you were saying bur this biological material in the ground,
instead of using it as compost is actually not just
counterproductive, but it's actually detrimental. Yes.
It's not the wrong way to do it because it doesn't serve the soil. Yeah.
It actually up the air.
It, it's not a zero, it's a negative, it's a negative.
But the same amount of biological material,
it's just managed incorrectly,
which is really crazy when you stop and think sure it.
Is. If, if all, if all the biomas that we have,
um, uh, what's the word non-leveraged or, or,
or thrown away if all the biomas we've thrown away in the last, you know,
a hundred years,
if it had instead been leveraged for soil building,
uh, feet, chickens, I mean, you know, whatever, um, you know,
today we would not have all that methane.
And today we would have soils that were,
that would be a lot richer and we would have, you know, um,
better earthworm populations, you know, we'd have a tremendous amount of,
of soil, um, maintain soil, abundant fertility.
And so the beautiful thing is that this,
this is not that difficult to bring back. Uh, I mean,
I've been preaching this message, you know, all my life,
and it's exciting to now suddenly have people stepping back and realize,
wow, you know, we just kind of put a pause button and there are now, you know,
dolphins in Venice, again, there's, you know,
in Shanghai you can see across the street, you know, there's blue. How about LA?
Yeah. LA I mean, amazing pictures, amazing pictures. So, so the, the,
when people say let's get back to normal, look,
I, I, I don't, I don't want, I don't want the, the, uh, whatever,
the, the tragedy that we're having,
but I also don't want to go back to normal cuz normal was this foot on
nature's yeah. Neck saying, you know, we're gonna, so,
so that's where you start saying, well, you know, what,
what does the future look? What, what could a future look like?
And that's where we start talking about decentralization integration, um,
you know, integrating our, all of our streams and, um,
large scale change. Oh, really large, very large scale, very,
very disruptive of very disruptive,
but everybody has a job. Everybody has a new thing. I mean,
my thing about the carbon economy, uh, of course, you know,
we're there in that hardwood region of Virginia, you know,
near the blue Ridge Parkway, Chino national park, all that stuff. And the,
and the, the, the federal, uh, forests are atrocious. I mean, dead trees,
the fuel buildup is fuel buildup is just ridiculous. Can,
you know, wouldn't it be cool if, if, uh,
mommy or daddy could come home and their six year old says, you know,
what did you do today? And mommy and daddy are able to say, well, we,
we stewarded, you know, uh,
five acres up on Jack mountain and, um,
and kept it from having a fuel load to burn and took
that biomas so that a farmer could feed his earthworms.
So there'd be soil for your future.
There'll be abundance and soil for your future. I mean, what a affirming,
sacred, righteous vocation, uh,
that would be, and,
and it would affirm people who want to work outside and have callouses and
blisters on their hands. You know, we've spent a,
we've spent a couple generations marginalizing what we call
blue collar mm. People, and, and, uh,
one of the big issues right now, as we go to an AI, uh, you know,
a techno future is what do we do with people that like
to work outside with their hands and, and sweat, you know, the, the,
the Michael Rowe, you know, the, the dirty jobs,
I'm suggesting that a carbon economy is one of many,
so many pathways to actually
envisioning a future where thousands and thousands of people would be employed
in healing ministries. So that we'd be caressing, our nest,
you know, so many times the,
the idea in agriculture and the farming community is that that nature is a
nature, is a, a reluctant partner that we've gotta, you know,
we gotta get 'em in our wrestling hole. We gotta dominate and conclu the door,
and we're gonna make you, you know,
we're push you when actually nature is a benevolent lover
that just wants to be caressed. And we haven't,
and we haven't put attention on caressing in the right places for a long time.